*vertigo.txt*   Vertigo.vim: A better way to move vertically

CONTENTS
--------
   1. Introduction             |vertigo|
   2. Setting up your .vimrc   |vertigo-setup|
   3. Usage                    |vertigo-use|
   4. Configuration            |vertigo-config|
      - Setting home row       |vertigo-homerow|
      - Single-digit numbers   |vertigo-onedigit|

==============================================================================
1. Introduction                                                      *vertigo*

This plugin is based on a simple idea: that moving up and down using relative
line numbers (e.g., 3j, 15k) is a very simple and precise way of moving around
vertically, and shouldn't require your hands to leave home row.

To show how Vertigo works, let's look an example: say you want to go to some
line that you can see (with 'relativenumber') is 14 lines down.

With Vertigo, you'd press <Space>j to activate "jump mode." Vim then waits for
two home-row keypresses representing a two-digit number, mapping "asdfghjkl;"
to "1234567890". You then press "af" for 14, and just like that, you're 14
lines down.

    Note: The key bindings are configurable, and not on by default. You'll
    need to create some mappings in your .vimrc in order to use this plugin,
    which you'll see in the next section.

Non-QWERTY users: see |vertigo-homerow| to change what home row is.

==============================================================================
2. Setting up your .vimrc                                      *vertigo-setup*

By default, Vertigo doesn't create any mappings -- just two Ex commands. In
order to make use of it, you'll need to put some mappings in your .vimrc. Here
are some reasonable defaults, which we'll use in the examples: >

    nnoremap <silent> <Space>j :<C-U>VertigoDown n<CR>
    vnoremap <silent> <Space>j :<C-U>VertigoDown v<CR>
    onoremap <silent> <Space>j :<C-U>VertigoDown o<CR>
    nnoremap <silent> <Space>k :<C-U>VertigoUp n<CR>
    vnoremap <silent> <Space>k :<C-U>VertigoUp v<CR>
    onoremap <silent> <Space>k :<C-U>VertigoUp o<CR>

Of course, you can change the left side of the mappings (<Space>j and
<Space>k) to whatever you want.

Also, this plugin depends on you having line numbers on. While the example in
the introduction was with relative numbering, you can also use it with
absolute numbering, as explained in the next section. Make sure you have one
or both of the following in your .vimrc: >

    set relativenumber
    set number

Lastly, this plugin will not run if 'compatible' is set.

Non-QWERTY users: see |vertigo-homerow| to change what home row is. If you're
using Dvorak, you can just add this to your .vimrc: >

    let g:Vertigo_homerow = 'aoeuidhtns'

==============================================================================
3. Usage                                                         *vertigo-use*

The example in the introduction actually covers most of how to use this
plugin, but there are a few other details to cover.

The example in the introduction demonstrated jumping up or down 10 or more
lines, which is as follows:

    1. Press <Space>k or <Space>j to jump up or down, respectively. A "jump
       up" or "jump down" prompt will appear at the bottom of your screen.
    2. Type the two-digit number of lines you want to jump on home row, as if
       your hands were on the number row of the keyboard. For example, if you
       want to jump 36 lines down, type "dh".

Note that this depends on relative numbering being on. If absolute numbering
is on, this plugin will instead take the last two digits of the line number
you want to jump to, as long as it's visible on-screen.

To jump a single-digit number of lines, or to a single-digit line number,
there are a few options. See |vertigo-onedigit|.

These jumps can be used for movement, but they can also be used just like any
other Vim motions: they can be used in Visual mode or as |linewise| motions to
operators. For example, you can use d<Space>jsk where you would use d28j.

---

A note about single-digit numbers:                          *vertigo-onedigit*

By default, you can use either of two methods to input single-digit numbers.
    1. You can type a zero in the number. For example, to jump to line 5, line
       305, or 5 lines up or down, you can type ";g".
    2. You can press shift (configurable -- see |vertigo-onedigit|) to
       indicate a one-digit number. In the previous example, you could just
       type "G".

Alternatively, you can enable a "smarter" method:
    If you type a large number like 6 or 7, you probably want to jump by 6 or
7 lines, not 60-something or 70-something. But if you type a small number like
1 or 2, you probably do want to jump by a two-digit number of lines. You can
enable this input method (and choose the cutoff between "large" and "small"
numbers) with a command like this in your .vimrc: >

    let g:Vertigo_onedigit_method = 'smart4'
    " 4 or smaller is 'small,' and 5 or larger is 'large'
    " You can also use 'smart2' or any other cutoff you want.

If you would like a more manual approach but often forget to type zero or
shift, you can set a key to submit the typed digit with a command like this in
your .vimrc: >

    let g:Vertigo_onedigit_key = ' '
    " Triggering a jump prompt and typing 5<Space> jumps 5 lines
    " You can set this to any key

==============================================================================
4. Configuration                                              *vertigo-config*

If you use the QWERTY keyboard layout, chances are you'll be fine with the
defaults. If you use a different keyboard layout, though, you'll need to set
one or both of g:Vertigo_homerow and g:Vertigo_homerow_onedigit.

Note that these variables need to be set before the vertigo.vim plugin file
loads. You can check what order scripts are loaded using :scriptnames. In
particular, if you aren't using Pathogen or another plugin manager, you'll
probably need to make sure configuration lines are above plugin-loading lines
in your .vimrc.

Setting home row                                             *vertigo-homerow*
----------------
For users of keyboards other than QWERTY, Vertigo's idea of "home row" is
easily changed. Simply assign a value to g:Vertigo_homerow in your .vimrc with
all ten of the (lowercase) keys in home row on your keyboard. If unassigned,
Vertigo acts as if this is set to "asdfghjkl;".

For example, Dvorak users would use: >

    let g:Vertigo_homerow = 'aoeuidhtns'

Note: If you're using a keyboard layout other than Dvorak or QWERTY, you
should read this next part.

                                                   *vertigo-onedigit-variable*
The g:Vertigo_homerow_onedigit variable (which you can set in your .vimrc)
sets what keys are used for single-digit jumps. By default, this is QWERTY's
home row, with shift pressed: "ASDFGHJKL:".

You can set it to whatever you want, however. For example, if you want the row
above home row to be for single-digit numbers, you can use: >

    let g:Vertigo_homerow_onedigit = 'qwertyuiop'

If you don't set this variable but change g:Vertigo_homerow from the default
"asdfhjkl;", however, Vertigo will set the uppercased version of
g:Vertigo_homerow as a default for g:Vertigo_homerow_onedigit. For example, if
you're using the Dvorak keyboard, you'd set home row like this: >

    let g:Vertigo_homerow = 'aoeuidhtns'

By default, Vertigo will use 'AOEUIDHTNS' for g:Vertigo_homerow_onedigit. This
should work for many other keyboard layouts, but will fail if any of your home
row keys don't simply turn into uppercase letters when shift is pressed.

A special case is used to handle QWERTY, but for other layouts, you'll have to
manually set g:Vertigo_homerow_onedigit.

==============================================================================
5. Miscellany                                                   *vertigo-misc*

Author:   Pandu Rendradjaja
License:  Same terms as Vim -- see |license|

Source repository:
https://github.com/prendradjaja/vim-vertigo

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 vim:tw=78:ts=8:ft=help:norl:
